okay then Rob so we've got the fly in
the water now you're gonna say to me now
what do we do once the flies in the
water well a lot of people's I do the
fly fishing is a little fly sitting on
the surface of the water and the fish
comes and takes it it's always my idea
yeah in in the real world
yes dry fly fishing if the conditions
are right but most of the time we're
fishing subsurface as we are now with a
damsel nymph so we have to retrieve that
fly we have to pull it in there's a few
basic retrieves again drops rod low to
the water tip down at the water in that
sense everything's in a straight line if
a fish pulls on there you'll feel it
straight to the rod tip okay and this is
we do a slow pulling retrieve all the
time we're doing those little slow pulls
like that that flow is lifting and
dropping okay okay so that's a slow
retrieve when you get to about that sort
of distance use the rod to lift
don't pull all the fly line into the rod
use the rod to lift up you can see the
fly they're coming there's nothing after
it and then back into another casting we
will then look at so now we'll try a
slightly faster retrieve again
everything in a straight line point the
rod at the water and at the fly anything
pulls that will feel it straight away
now we'll do a faster retreat okay
faster twitchy retrieve
all the time that's keeping that flight
nearer to the surface the faster you
retrieve the higher in the water the fly
stays okay so a slower retrieval fish
your fly data faster retrieve will bring
it up near to the surface and again lift
have a look at the fly there's nothing
after it so again back into another cast
nice and control okay
back out into that wind right another
very very popular retrieve is the figure
of item it's very popular with nymphs a
slow steady continuous retrieve and the
figure of eight is just basically a loop
of line turn your hand a loop of line
all that time I'm doing that now that
line is constantly moving it and no I
slow steady pace okay so that nymph
would just be the bottom yet gently
moving along and again very every now
and then two or three little twitches
just a little bit of life something a
little bit different that sometimes will
trigger a take but again at all times
keep that rod tip pointing at the water
so everything's in a straight line any
kind of movement on that fly line you'll
feel it straightaway here a lot of
people stand there with a big loop of
line from the tip of the rod you haven't
you haven't got the feel to the actual
fly with with that holding the rod above
the water like that and back out there
again one other thing I really want to
mention when we're doing retrieving that
I hadn't thought of is this index finger
is very important okay because that is
your control over the line okay as I've
said earlier we don't use the real lot I
certainly don't I play fish by hand but
this index finger here is your control
okay this hand underneath that index
finger and you're pulling if a fish
takes you just trap it with your index
finger and lift into the fish okay so
control with the index finger everything
get a nice straight line and just do a
nice steady very as well you know if you
put some life into the fly don't keep
everything the same very if you're not
getting any kind of response from the
fish do something a little bit
different I got a feeling you're gonna
catch a fish on this receiver so would
you like to have a go at that oh yeah
I'll catch the fish okay so if I just
the figure of eight is just that's it
yep
and try and point your rod up the line
that's good
maybe they seen a nice straight line now
if anything pulls on that that fly
you'll feel the takes right away okay
that's good yeah figure of eight a lot
some people keep the line in their hand
I personally don't like to do that it
tends to create short angle just turn
your hand and drop the line like as you
are there for one is just to that's it
that's it that's a faster Twitter
retrieve yep that's it yeah all the time
you're doing that that flow is pulsating
the tails kicking on the floor just that
little bit of something that might spur
the fish into having a having a snap at
that fly and just slowly up Oh yep
that's it an inter-caste for that rod
that's not good
that's good a little bit difficult into
this wind but is out there might